# Bay Area Housing Project

(CIS 545 project, created a copy from Colab)

The primary goal of this project is to investigate why housing prices in the Bay Area are so high compared to other major U.S. metropolitan areas. By exploring unique factors driving these costs like income, education level, vacancy, demographics, occupancy, etc., we hope to uncover insights into the Bay Area's housing market, as well as potential remedies to its high cost. We are planning on using linear regression models as well as visualization aids like heatmaps to understand relationships between housing prices and variables, such as median income. Additionally, we are planning to explore the intersection between housing and voter data, examining whether residents of a certain area display voting patterns on housing policies. By identifying how communities vote on housing related issues, we may be able to detect patterns that influence housing pricing in the Bay Area. 

Our project addresses a significant real-world issue impacting many people. We also aim to highlight any unique factors in the Bay Area that might offer insights into solutions other cities are doing differently. Leveraging multiple data sources will provide a broad perspective, and our project’s complexity in joining data on housing, demographics, and voting, data cleaning, and feature engineering will allow us to find useful trends and patterns. The nature of this project provides opportunities for us to potentially explore factors often overlooked, such as area demographics, historical prices, pollution, and temperature changes. Additionally, incorporating machine learning methods based on features like area, safety, demographics, median income, and even NIMBY scores can allow us to predict housing prices for the next decade. We can also apply our analysis on data from other cities which will help contextualize our findings about the Bay Area.
